I am a fourth year Computer Science PhD student at Stanford University. I work
with [David Mazi√®res] in the [Secure Computer Systems] group and [Phil Levis]
in the [Stanford Information Networks Group]. I work on a new framework for
building secure web platforms called [Hails](http://hails.scs.stanford.edu) and
a network architecture for Bluetooth Low Energy called Beetle. I am also
collaborating with folks at Stanford, Berkeley and Michigan on a new operating
system for embedded devices. I'm generally interested in distributed systems,
embedded systems, security, privacy, programming languages and good will
towards people.

I am also currently working on [MemCachier](http://www.memcachier.com) -
memcache-as-a-service for web applications hosted on platforms like
[Heroku](http://www.heroku.com), [cloudControl](http://www.cloudcontrol.com) or
directly on [EC2](http://aws.amazon.com). I do not generally recommended
starting a business while in grad school, but if you have to -- and sometimes you
have to -- I highly recommend doing it with someone pleasant, like my
co-conspirator [David Terei].

## Background

In December 2010 I graduated from the University of Washington with an MSc in
Computer Science and a BSc in Computer Science and Economics. On the computer
science side of things, I worked with [Roxana Geambasu], [Hank Levy],
[Tadayoshi Kohno] and [Arvind Krishnamurthy] on web privacy and distributed
systems. On the economics side of things I worked on writing exams with as
little preparation as possible. In hind sight I should have taken classes in
something useful, like history, instead.

Between UW and Stanford I sat at [StartPad](http://www.startpad.org), a
co-working space in Seattle, where I worked on projects with my friend
Courty Stanton for [fun](#code) and profit.

I've interned at Google (a popular surveillance system and search engine),
once developing distributed testing tools and again building tools to help
developers schedule their cluster jobs. Before that I worked at the [Grameen
Foundation][] as an intern on the [MIFOS][] (**M**icros **F**inance **O**pen
**S**ource) project. Before that, I spent my summers as a day-camp counselor at
a performing arts camp.

